 \ TYPES

A ball is a thing with a radius, a color, a rise, a run, a spot, and a visible flag.
A turret is a thing with a radius, a spot and a heading.

\ GLOBAL VARIABLES

The balls are some balls.
The ball count is 10.
The game-over flag is a flag.
The turret is a turret.

\ MAIN ROUTINE

To run:
Start up.
Create the turret.
Create the balls.
Loop.
If the escape key is down, break.
If the game-over flag is set, break.
Move the balls.
If the right-arrow key is down, add 10 points to the turret's heading.
If the left-arrow key is down, subtract 10 points from the turret's heading.
If the space key is down, shoot.
Show everything.
Repeat.
Wait for the escape key.
Destroy the balls.
Destroy the turret.
Shut down.

\ CREATE ROUTINES

To create some balls:
Create a ball.
Add 1 to a count. If the count is the ball count, break.
Repeat.

To create a ball:
Allocate memory for the ball. Append the ball to the balls.
Pick a radius between 1/8 inch and 1/4 inch. Put the radius into the ball's radius.
Pick a grayish color. Put the grayish color into the ball's color.
Put 1 pixel into the ball's rise. If you feel like it, reverse the ball's rise.
Put 1 pixel  into the ball's run. If you feel like it, reverse the ball's run.
Pick a spot for the ball.
Set the ball's visible flag.

To pick a spot for a ball:
Put the screen's box into a box. Indent the box 1/2 inch.
Pick the spot anywhere in the box.
If the spot is occupied, repeat.
Put the spot into the ball's spot.

To decide if a spot is occupied:
If the spot is within 1 inch of the turret's spot, say yes.
Loop.
Get a ball from the balls.
If the ball is nil, break.
If the spot is within 1 inch of the ball's spot, say yes.
Repeat.
Say no.

To create a turret:
Allocate memory for the turret.
Put 1/2 inch into the turret's radius.
Put the screen's center into the turret's spot.

\ SHOOT ROUTINES

To shoot:
If the left-arrow key is down, exit.
If the right-arrow key is down, exit.
Move to the turret's spot. Put the context's spot into a line's start.
Use the fat pen. Use the green color.
Stroke 12 inches. Put the context's spot into the line's end.
Refresh the screen.
Erase any ball on the line.
Show everything.

To erase any ball on a line:
Get a ball from the balls.
If the ball is nil, exit.
If the ball's visible flag is not set, repeat.
If the ball's spot is not within the ball's radius of the line, repeat.
Clear the ball's visible flag.
Repeat.

\ BALL MOVE ROUTINES

To move some balls:
Get a ball from the balls.
If the ball is nil, exit.
If the ball's visible flag is not set, repeat.
Move the ball.
Repeat.

To move a ball:
Add the ball's run and the ball's rise to the ball's spot.
Put the screen's box into a box. Indent the box the ball's radius.
If the ball's spot is above or below the box, reverse the ball's rise.
If the ball's spot is left or right of the box, reverse the ball's run.
If the ball is touching another ball, reverse the ball given the other ball (first ball bounces).
If the ball is touching the turret, set the game-over flag.

To decide if a ball is touching another ball:
Void the other ball.
Loop.
Get the other ball from the balls.
If the other ball is nil, say no.
If the other ball's visible flag is not set, repeat.
If the other ball is the ball, repeat.
Get a quadrance between the ball's spot and the other ball's spot.
Put the ball's radius plus the other ball's radius into another quadrance. Square the other quadrance.
If the quadrance is greater than the other quadrance, repeat.
Say yes.

To reverse a ball given another ball (first ball bounces):
If the ball's spot is above or below the other ball's spot, reverse the ball's rise.
If the ball's spot is left or right of the other ball's spot, reverse the ball's run.

To decide if a ball is touching a turret:
Get a quadrance between the ball's spot and the turret's spot.
Put the ball's radius plus the turret's radius into another quadrance. Square the other quadrance.
If the quadrance is greater than the other quadrance, say no.
Say yes.

\ SHOW AND DRAW ROUTINES

To show everything:
Draw the screen's box with the black color and the black color.
Draw the balls.
Draw the turret.
If the game-over flag is not set, refresh the screen; exit.
Put "osmosian" and 3 inches into a font.
Draw "GAME OVER" in the center of the screen's box with the red pen and the font.
Refresh the screen.

To draw some balls:
Get a ball from the balls.
If the ball is nil, exit.
If the ball's visible flag is not set, repeat.
Draw the ball.
Repeat.

To draw a ball:
Put the ball's radius times 2 into a width.
Make an ellipse the width by the width. Center the ellipse on the ball's spot.
Draw the ellipse with the ball's color.

To draw a turret:
Put the turret's radius times 2 into a width.
Make an ellipse the width by the width. Center the ellipse on the turret's spot.
Draw the ellipse with the white pen and the clear pen.
Use the fat pen. Use the red color.
Move to the turret's spot.
Put the turret's heading into the context's heading.
Stroke 1/2 inch.

\ GENERAL PURPOSE ROUTINES THAT SHOULD BE IN THE NOODLE

A quadrance is a number.

A grayish color is a color.

To get a quadrance between a spot and another spot:
Put the spot's x minus the other spot's x into a number. Square the number.
Put the spot's y minus the other spot's y into another number. Square the other number.
Put the number plus the other number into the quadrance.

To square a number:
Put the number times the number into the number.

To decide if a spot is above another spot:
If the spot's y is less than the other spot's y, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a spot is below another spot:
If the spot's y is greater than the other spot's y, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a spot is left of another spot:
If the spot's x is less than the other spot's x, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a spot is right of another spot:
If the spot's x is greater than the other spot's x, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a spot is above or below another spot:
If the spot is above the other spot, say yes.
If the spot is below the other spot, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a spot is left or right of another spot:
If the spot is left of the other spot, say yes.
If the spot is right of the other spot, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a spot is within some twips of a line:
Privatize the line.
Loop.
Get a distance between the spot and the line's center (chessboard).
If the distance is less than or equal to the twips, say yes.
Get the distance between the line's start and the line's end (chessboard).
If the distance is less than or equal to the tpp, say no.
Split the line into the line and another line.
Get the distance between the spot and the line's center (chessboard).
Get another distance between the spot and the other line's center (chessboard).
If the distance is greater than the other distance, put the other line into the line.
Repeat.

To pick a grayish color:
Pick the grayish color's hue between 2100 and 2100.
Put 0 into the grayish color's saturation.
Pick the grayish color's brightness between 250 and 875.
Put the grayish color into the context's color.
