A paddle is a thing with a box.
A ball is a thing with a spot and a speed pair.

The paddle is a paddle.
The balls are some balls.
The ball count is 3.

To run:
Start up.
Create the paddle.
Create the balls.
Loop.
If the escape key is down, break.
Clear the canvas.
Move the paddle. Draw the paddle.
Move the balls. Draw the balls.
Refresh the screen.
Repeat.
Destroy the balls.
Destroy the paddle.
Shut down.

To create a paddle:
Allocate memory for the paddle.
Make the paddle's box 1/2 inch by 2 inches.

To create some balls:
Allocate memory for a ball. Append the ball to the balls.
Put the screen's box into a box. Indent the box 1/2 inch.
Pick the ball's spot anywhere in the box.
Pick a horizontal speed between 2 pixels and 4 pixels.
Pick a vertical speed between 2 pixels and 4 pixels.
Put the horizontal speed and the vertical speed into the ball's speed pair.
Add 1 to a count. If the count is less than the ball count, repeat.

To draw a paddle:
Put the mouse's spot into a spot.
Put the screen's right minus 1/2 inch into the spot's left.
Center the paddle's box on the spot.
Draw the paddle's box with the green pen and the green pen.

To draw some balls:
Get a ball from the balls.
If the ball is nil, exit.
Make an ellipse 1 inch by 1 inch.
Center the ellipse on the ball's spot.
Draw the ellipse with the green pen.
Repeat.

To move a paddle:
Put the mouse's spot into a spot.
Put the screen's right minus 1/2 inch into the spot's left.
Center the paddle's box on the spot.

To move some balls:
Get a ball from the balls.
If the ball is nil, exit.
If the ball is touching the paddle's box, reverse the ball's speed pair.
If the ball is touching any other ball, reverse the ball's speed pair.
If the ball is touching the left or right of the screen, reverse the ball's speed pair's x.
If the ball is touching the top or bottom of the screen, reverse the ball's speed pair's y.
Add the ball's speed pair to the ball's spot.
Repeat.

To decide if a ball is touching a box:
Privatize the box.
Outdent the box 1/2 inch.
If the ball's spot is in the box, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a ball is touching the top or bottom of the screen:
Put the screen's box into a box.
Indent the box 1/2 inch.
If the ball's spot is above or below the box, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a ball is touching the left or right of the screen:
Put the screen's box into a box.
Indent the box 1/2 inch.
If the ball's spot is left or right of the box, say yes.
Say no.

To decide if a ball is touching any other ball:
Get another ball from the balls.
If the other ball is nil, say no.
If the ball is the other ball, repeat.
If the ball's spot is within 1 inch of the other ball's spot (quadrance method), say yes.
Repeat.


\ Noodle stuff

To clear the canvas:
Draw the screen's box with the black color and the black color.

To reverse a pair:
Reverse the pair's x.
Reverse the pair's y.

A speed is a number.

To decide if a spot is within some twips of another spot (quadrance method):
Privatize the twips. Square the twips.
Get a quadrance between the spot and the other spot.
If the quadrance is less than or equal to the twips, say yes.
Say no.

A quadrance is a number.

A bluish color is a color.

To get a quadrance between a spot and another spot:
Put the spot's x minus the other spot's x into a number. Square the number.
Put the spot's y minus the other spot's y into another number. Square the other number.
Put the number plus the other number into the quadrance.

To square a number:
Multiply the number by the number.
