\ send DATA
Send "DATA" then the crlf string to the socket and receive the response string.
If the i/o error is not blank, destroy the socket; exit.
If the response starts with "5", put the response into the i/o error; trim the i/o error; destroy the socket; exit.
\ send From: xxx crlf To: xxx crlf Subject: xxx crlf Reply-To: xxx crlf message crlf . crlf
Clear a temp string.
Append "From: " then the email's sender then the crlf string to the temp string.
Append "To: " then the email's recipient then the crlf string to the temp string.
Append "Subject: " then the email's subject then the crlf string into the temp string.
Append "Reply-To: " then the email's sender then the crlf string into the temp string.
Append the crlf string to the temp string.
Append the email's message to the temp string (handling email transparency).
Append the crlf string then "." then the crlf string to the temp string.
Send the temp string to the socket and receive the response string.
If the i/o error is not blank, destroy the socket; exit.
If the response starts with "5", put the response into the i/o error; trim the i/o error; destroy the socket; exit.
\ send QUIT
Send "QUIT" then the crlf string to the socket.
\ destroy socket
Destroy the socket.

To send a message from a sender to a recipient:
Send the message to the recipient from the sender.

To send a message from a sender to a recipient via a smtp server:
Send the message to the recipient from the sender via the smtp server.

To send a message from a sender to a recipient with a subject:
Send the message to the recipient from the sender with the subject.

To send a message from a sender to a recipient with a subject via a smtp server:
Send the message to the recipient from the sender with the subject via the smtp server.

To send a message to a recipient from a sender:
Put the default smtp server into an email's smtp server.
Put the recipient into the email's recipient.
Put the sender into the email's sender.
Put the message into the email's message.
Send the email.

To send a message to a recipient from a sender via a smtp server:
