If the byte is the big-p byte, stroke the big-p glyph.
If the byte is the big-q byte, stroke the big-q glyph.
If the byte is the big-r byte, stroke the big-r glyph.
If the byte is the big-s byte, stroke the big-s glyph.
If the byte is the big-t byte, stroke the big-t glyph.
If the byte is the big-u byte, stroke the big-u glyph.
If the byte is the big-v byte, stroke the big-v glyph.
If the byte is the big-w byte, stroke the big-w glyph.
If the byte is the big-x byte, stroke the big-x glyph.
If the byte is the big-y byte, stroke the big-y glyph.
If the byte is the big-z byte, stroke the big-z glyph.
If the byte is the caret byte, stroke the caret glyph.
If the byte is the colon byte, stroke the colon glyph.
If the byte is the comma byte, stroke the comma glyph.
If the byte is the dollar-sign byte, stroke the dollar-sign glyph.
If the byte is the double-quote byte, stroke the double-quote glyph.
If the byte is the eight byte, stroke the eight glyph.
If the byte is the equal-sign byte, stroke the equal-sign glyph.
If the byte is the exclamation-mark byte, stroke the exclamation-mark glyph.
If the byte is the five byte, stroke the five glyph.
If the byte is the four byte, stroke the four glyph.
If the byte is the left-alligator byte, stroke the left-alligator glyph.
If the byte is the left-brace byte, stroke the left-brace glyph.
If the byte is the left-bracket byte, stroke the left-bracket glyph.
If the byte is the left-paren byte, stroke the left-paren glyph.
If the byte is the little-a byte, stroke the little-a glyph.
If the byte is the little-b byte, stroke the little-b glyph.
If the byte is the little-c byte, stroke the little-c glyph.
If the byte is the little-d byte, stroke the little-d glyph.
If the byte is the little-e byte, stroke the little-e glyph.
If the byte is the little-f byte, stroke the little-f glyph.
If the byte is the little-g byte, stroke the little-g glyph.
If the byte is the little-h byte, stroke the little-h glyph.
If the byte is the little-i byte, stroke the little-i glyph.
If the byte is the little-j byte, stroke the little-j glyph.
If the byte is the little-k byte, stroke the little-k glyph.
If the byte is the little-l byte, stroke the little-l glyph.
If the byte is the little-m byte, stroke the little-m glyph.
If the byte is the little-n byte, stroke the little-n glyph.
If the byte is the little-o byte, stroke the little-o glyph.
If the byte is the little-p byte, stroke the little-p glyph.
If the byte is the little-q byte, stroke the little-q glyph.
If the byte is the little-r byte, stroke the little-r glyph.
If the byte is the little-s byte, stroke the little-s glyph.
If the byte is the little-t byte, stroke the little-t glyph.
If the byte is the little-u byte, stroke the little-u glyph.
If the byte is the little-v byte, stroke the little-v glyph.
If the byte is the little-w byte, stroke the little-w glyph.
If the byte is the little-x byte, stroke the little-x glyph.
If the byte is the little-y byte, stroke the little-y glyph.
If the byte is the little-z byte, stroke the little-z glyph.
If the byte is the minus-sign byte, stroke the minus-sign glyph.
If the byte is the nine byte, stroke the nine glyph.
If the byte is the number-sign byte, stroke the number-sign glyph.
If the byte is the one byte, stroke the one glyph.
If the byte is the percent-sign byte, stroke the percent-sign glyph.
If the byte is the period byte, stroke the period glyph.
If the byte is the plus-sign byte, stroke the plus-sign glyph.
If the byte is the question-mark byte, stroke the question-mark glyph.
If the byte is the right-alligator byte, stroke the right-alligator glyph.
If the byte is the right-brace byte, stroke the right-brace glyph.
If the byte is the right-bracket byte, stroke the right-bracket glyph.
If the byte is the right-paren byte, stroke the right-paren glyph.
If the byte is the semi-colon byte, stroke the semi-colon glyph.
If the byte is the seven byte, stroke the seven glyph.
If the byte is the single-quote byte, stroke the single-quote glyph.
If the byte is the six byte, stroke the six glyph.
If the byte is the slash byte, stroke the slash glyph.
If the byte is the three byte, stroke the three glyph.
If the byte is the tilde byte, stroke the tilde glyph.
If the byte is the two byte, stroke the two glyph.
If the byte is the underscore byte, stroke the underscore glyph.
If the byte is the vertical-bar byte, stroke the vertical-bar glyph.
If the byte is the zero byte, stroke the zero glyph.
\ Refresh the screen. \ *** questionable doesn't work screws up console.

To stroke the caret glyph:
Save the context.
Move 3 squares.
Turn right 1/8.
Stroke 1 square slantways.
Turn right.
Stroke 1 square slantways.
Restore the context.

To stroke the colon glyph:
Save the context.
Turn right.
Move 1 square.
Turn left.
Stroke 1/2 square.
Move 1/2 square.
Move 1 square.
Stroke 1/2 square.
Restore the context.

