A number called otmmaclinegap,
A number called otmusminiumppem,
A spot called otmptsubscriptsize,
A spot called otmptsubscriptoffset,
A spot called otmptsuperscriptsize,
A spot called otmptsuperscriptoffset,
A number called otmsstrikeoutsize,
A number called otmsstrikeoutposition,
A number called otmsunderscoresize,
A number called otmsunderscoreposition,
A pointer called otmpfamilyname,
A pointer called otmpfacename,
A pointer called otmpstylename,
A pointer called otmpfullname.

To output the arc of an ellipse given a string:
Put 2761/10000 into a fraction. \ 2/3*(sqrt(2)-1)
Put the ellipse's center into a center spot.
Put the ellipse's x-extent divided by 2 into a half width.
Put the ellipse's y-extent divided by 2 into a half height.
Put the ellipse's x-extent times the fraction into an x offset.
Put the ellipse's y-extent times the fraction into a y offset.
\ control point 1
If the string is "left-top", put the ellipse's left and the center's y minus the y offset into a first control spot. 
If the string is "right-top", put the center's x plus the x offset and the ellipse's top into the first control spot.
If the string is "right-bottom", put the ellipse's right and the center's y plus the y offset into the first control spot.
If the string is "left-bottom", put the center's x minus the x offset and the ellipse's bottom into the first control spot.
\ control point 2
If the string is "left-top", put the center's x minus the x offset and the ellipse's top into a second control spot.
If the string is "right-top", put the ellipse's right and the center's y minus the y offset into the second control spot.
If the string is "right-bottom", put the center's x plus the x offset and the ellipse's bottom into the second control spot.
If the string is "left-bottom", put the ellipse's left and the center's y plus the y offset into the second control spot.
\ ending point
If the string is "left-top", put the ellipse's left plus the half width and the ellipse's top into an ending spot.
If the string is "right-top", put the ellipse's right and the ellipse's top plus the half height into the ending spot.
